think about that one thing you want
right now that thing you want more than
anything else
see it feel it hold it in your mind that
thing you want you can't have it you
will have it because you have the power
to do anything about us yen I think I
have told you this story before I knew
one guy black guy in Canada I didn't
know him personally and profoundly or
anything you're gonna see why he's not
the kind of guy I would normally be
friends with I knew of him and a lot of
other kids at my school knew him and
spent more time around him he was an old
black guy tall skinny black guy who he
could have gotten into the NBA so he was
good enough at the skills as an NBA
player and I forget like it was
something like he was at the training
camp stage like before he going to be
like you know there's some intermediate
phase or you're you know like they
already know they want you or something
and you know they noticed him running
around there was something funny about
him running around and they set him down
and gave him an electrocardiogram and
some other tests he had all the skills
he had the size he was an incredibly
good basketball player but he had some
kind of heart condition and they said
sorry you're out
right so this guy I mean like I'd laid
eyes on him I mean I never sorry no it's
not I didn't ever talk with him but he
did kind of coach you know kids at the
YMCA kind of thing and he stood around
his his skill level was so high I mean
this is one of the tricks he did he
would take a quarter like a 20 and he
could do it with a nickel too I think
so a five century and he would flip it
up and he could get it to land on the
top of the backboard the basketball
backboard and then he could take a
second coin and flip it and hit them and
knock them both down so they filled out
so this is a lifetime devoted to these
skills or spent or wasted a big girl
like you know and but I mean simply he
had some kind of heart condition so I
assume it's a arrhythmia or something so
he couldn't do the other components of
being a basketball player so it's weird
to me watching this kind of think
positive you can do anything
message you can't and most people don't
have the 9 out of 10 components this guy
had to be a pro basketball player if
that's your dream to be a basketball
player
for the vast majority of people the
answer is no you can't not even cuz
you're not good enough but because
someone else is slightly better than you
that's you being bad you showed up at
the tryouts that year and maybe there
were just 10 people better than you you
know that's and that's it
you're not at that extremely extremely
high level of skill because you have the
power to do anything to achieve anything
to be anything to have anything nothing
can stop you and I did no one talked to
another guy this was a white guy who was
in the training to be a tennis pro so
again he was he didn't have a contract I
think tennis doesn't work that way
you're not signed to a team in tennis
you only think it's an individual it's
an individual sport
okay what's right but it's not like
you're assigned to the Chicago Bulls or
something but he went to one of these
pro training camps and he talked through
how many hours a day it was and you know
so all day every day he does nothing but
drill tennis one of these elite level
camps for going to the pros and then at
the end of the the process the judgment
was well you're really really good at
tennis but you're not good enough to be
a pro and you know like star in the and
what it so whatever he'd been doing 14
hours a day or so I forget whatever is
his crazy schedule was of practicing
tennis all day every day
throughout I guess what would have been
all of his junior high and high school
years or something because that those
sports you start really young I know the
majority that's the case for the
majority of college football right
sure tars that but you get brain damage
that's everything about that sport you
also get a life life altering injuries
and brain damage right well okay so look
so take this back so becoming a medical
doctor I don't know if you've met enough
medical Garcias you can be stupid and be
a medical doctor I want to say that as a
state I have met people who were stupid
and had successful careers as a medical
doctor right but to say this you know
like anything you want to achieve you
can just focus your mind on a positively
and you can achieve it most people can't
become medical doctors not even if they
really really want to
your reality is not up for negotiation
it's what you say it is it's what you
decide to make it you're capable of
amazing things you're capable of
anything you know you can ask yourself
in your own life and yeah it's crossed
all of our minds whether or not we
should feeling Michael Dawg it probably
has I mean it's an odd being uh obvious
enough choice and we all deal with
medical doctors but you know starting
from where you're at now could you
become a medical doctor you know the
answer is probably but the sacrifices
involved are sacrifices you wouldn't
want to make like for me right now at
age 39 could I become a medical doctor I
think the answer is yes you know it
would mean a lot of debt I mean like
spending money I don't have it would be
committing myself to institutions I
don't believe in and don't like doing a
lot of work and memorization I consider
meaningless you know but and maybe would
be like 12 years maybe that's yeah okay
let's say 12 years that's not that
unreasonable from where I'm at now
starting with a BA in political science
12 twelve year process well you know if
you set your mind to it you can do
anything there are very very obvious
barriers that are mostly you know
political economic and institutional so
you know what what does that mean to say
to somebody we you just comment that you
just said basis is mostly pitching this
to young people not middle-aged people
but isn't it even more dangerous to be
pushing this to young people yeah I
think so you know because you were just
you were you know basically talking
about this the same concept with me
right before this and I said you have a
middle-aged attitude right like you you
were saying you are totally committed to
bacon you said well in these
circumstances you know this is what
something that I could pursue but I'm
not married to the idea you know and I
said well I think these videos are
directed towards young people but and a
lot of young people expect that what
they're what they want right now is what
they're gonna want in the future right
and I guess the other thing is maybe
they feel they have nothing to sacrifice
in order to achieve it we
very wrong when you're young you're
making sacrifices that really have
terrible consequence the restaurant if
you make the sacrifices now to go into
pre-med and then you flunk out or
something that or you decide medical
school isn't right for you that has
really long-term consequences if
anything I can be less risk-averse I
know what but young people they may feel
they have nothing to sacrifice but they
do there is nothing you can't do you can
do anything you wanted you not just
small things anything any thing
you know there's also a really subtle
difference between saying anything and
everything like what do you mean if you
tell me I can accomplish everything I
want to accomplish you can accomplish
anything you want to accomplish this is
already a subtle difference now a lot of
what basis is about is about you know
feeling empowered to seduce and sleep
with beautiful women right what I met
guys later in life like I really
wondered if I just had an advantage
because I happened to go to a high
school with a lot of good-looking women
and some of those good-looking women
were into me right like I really did
have the experience or as I'm okay
and now it's obvious but it's not
obvious how good-looking a woman is has
nothing to do with whether or not she
finds me attractive and to really
understand that like a trait the women
who are gonna find you attractive it's
not like their perception of me is
changed by my perception of them and a
lot of guys grew up with that delusion
like oh they think of themselves as a
dude like they're a six
so therefore the other women who are
attracted them are gonna be a six like
no like a Trant there are women who are
gonna be attractive who are really ugly
there are women who attract you are
gonna be really objectively attractive
you know in terms of so social state
social games and you have to decide
working with those raw materials whether
or not you can make something positive
out of one situation or another and you
know like they're obviously woman can be
really attractive and be a meth-head you
know would be a cocaine addict or just
be a terror or be a fundamentalist
Christian I mean whatever all those
things all those scenarios happen so I'm
not saying this by any means that the
most but it's it's book one is here it's
it's useful advice to say to a young
person look it is possible that any
given woman
we'll be attracting you it is possible
that some woman who you think of as a 10
on this objective scale 1 to 10 and you
know I don't believe in the 1 to 10
scale I've had other videos with that
but nevertheless it's possible someone
like that will be attracted to you but
that is the exact opposite it's actually
incompatible with saying if you want
that person no matter who they are no
matter there are a 9 or a 10 you can
have anyone yeah and do you really mean
anyone or do you mean everyone you are
the king of your life you are the god of
your life
act like it think like it it's you it's
all you and only you
you're the most powerful thing in your
universe you can do anything you want
anything anything anything nothing can
stop you if anything gets in your way
you'll just bust through it you'll burn
it down you'll demolish it you are too
powerful to be stopped
you're doing it you're already doing it
your will is all-powerful nothing can
stop it or even attempt to fight against
it you know what really does this mean
you know in terms of positive
encouragement or what have you
yeah I think that's really really
dangerous and no on the contrary I like
dealing with the reality of human
shallowness the same way a dude may just
not be interested in a girl at all
because of the shape of her nose she has
enough turn the girl may reject you for
a similar that's it
nope wrong nose no no no no but here's
the other thing here's the other thing
this high school people up
this way in high school people have damn
a few choices there are few choices and
then real life is like the NBA you know
it could just be there are 10 guys
better than you that got here before you
for the tryouts
you can meet a great one young woman
great check great person and she is into
you and she would be interested in me
with you but some other guy already got
there first she's already eating and
that's 90 percent of the time that's her
that's really like a middle-aged
perspective but for real for real most
and it doesn't even matter the guy's
better than me or war doesn't
yeah he got to the trails first he's
already in the league or whatever you
want to say man like that's that's a
league of one you know get the NBA as
opposed to getting with any particular
woman you know so yeah what look I don't
believe in the power of positive
thinking I don't believe in this kind of
well I talk but that's really allowed to
say I do not believe in it I think that
what basis is doing here is actually
really harmful and dangerous
your will is the law that thing you want
visualize it in full detail the way it
looks
sounds feels tastes and smells your will
is already bringing that to fruition
you're about to have it all right think
after me I can do anything if I believe
I can you remember I told you we have
this great TV show Canada's worst driver
sorry so it's halfway between a reality
TV show on a game show or something it's
like it can not everyone can drive a car
not everyone can drive a car when I
worked at Starbucks I worked behind the
counter of a Starbucks normal Starbucks
job there was an old man who came in I
was gonna say every day came in I don't
know couple every week let's say he
didn't come in every day and when he
would buy his coffee he was an old man
who would showed at you because he was
going deaf that's but is that and he
would pay putting each coin on the
counter right maybe like what what is
that is that a dollar is that 25 cents
in Canada we have dollar to US would
really loudly asking with each with each
coin what is that is that a quarter is
that a dollar whatever right so this guy
he's part death and he's obviously like
completely blind right and then he would
won so this only happened once I just
maybe it wasn't I didn't lose there that
often but once I remember I just said to
him I said sir we didn't do this at
service sir I'm gonna take your coffee
and put it down on your table for you
you know what I mean so that there's no
way he can actually place the cup on the
table like you know what I mean cuz yeah
and then ya went over and did that and
you know cuz he's bumping into like
three chairs he's not seeing chairs that
aren't from he's not seeing where the
table is
this dude is is legally
and then he gets in his Cadillac and
drives home he's dropping the car every
day right this is the obvious public
menace I don't know how we see I'm
obviously maybe he's nearsighted enough
for said it but still how do you see
that how did you see the wheel or
whatever you know this guy is dangerous
and I did see him hit a parking meter
you know when parking the car we hit
them you hit the parking meter and not
knock it over so I but you know yes it's
easy to say not everyone getting the NBA
not everyone can can be a medical doctor
not everyone can date the particular
girl they have a crush on at the office
most of the time because she already has
a dude right whether or not the dudes
better than you was irrelevant but not
everybody can drive a car you know yeah
I think that's really worth appreciating
yeah unstated in this video is that
everybody is entitled to yeah get what
they want that thing you want nothing is
stopping you from achieving it nothing
limits only exists if you let them you
can do anything you want if you just
believe you're able to everyone and
everything wants you to succeed I want
you to succeed the universe want you to
succeed everything around you is just an
extension of yourself an extension of
your will everybody is entitled to yea
get what they want like you achieve
anything they don't want that's that's
true that's you know what though I want
to relate that to both of the prior
examples give the ultimate reason why
you should not drive a car it's because
you're a threat to others you're gonna
harm others but I mean also if I said to
you right now you know damn it Melissa
I'm gonna devote everything to becoming
a medical doctor that's gonna have
really negative effects on you that's
gonna have negative effects on my
daughter it's gonna have negative
effects on my mom in her last years of
living and so on it's actually I mean I
know becoming a medical doctor is not
that evil you know it's not as evil it's
not as self-indulgent as if I said to
you I'm gonna get into BASE jumping or
you know what was it paragliding or
downhill skiing but as a damn it my top
priority from now on is Rockets skiing
if you're a
get skiing yeah anyway yeah that's
coming with a strap rockets on the skis
so it's not something self-indulgent
like that but yeah sure part of it has
to be what is the impact on the on the
other people around you and are you
gonna sacrifice all that stuff sure if I
take food I took 12 years to become a
medical doctor
yeah the negative effect on you my
daughter my mom those few people in my
life negative effect on my
youtube-channel
no it's that all that's worth apart from
the fact that maybe I'd be a terrible
dog there would be I'd be a bad impact
on my patients maybe this is not
something I'd be I'd be excellent at
yeah anyway so look and you know just
bring it back to what is the moral of
the story of course economics matter I
mean for a lot of people poverty is
gonna be the reason they can't do what
they want to do including relationships
with members of the opposite sex and
stuff to poverty is an issue economics
really matters political circumstances
really matter you were just using the
word entitlement there is an element of
white privilege here I was just I did
research a couple weeks ago on the
Native American colleges in the United
States the colleges that are just for
you know Native Americans you know whoo
okay so if you're born on the Native
reservation and this is the college you
have access to you and these are the
only topics being taught there are
political and then you know ultimately
of course institutional questions I'm
still dealing with it I'm still dealing
with the checkmark boxes I need to you
know get through University my second
university degree and so on and they're
probably gonna be a third and a fourth
after that but I mean the economic
political and institutional hurdles that
are in front of you are so much more
important than the desire you have to
run down that race track to run over
those hurdles so much more important and
then beyond that I think like the
basketball player I mentioned at the
start you might think you've got all the
skills and then you only find out when
you start doing it yeah there's that you
don't you don't have what it takes you
know it's in his case it's a heart
condition there may be things invisible
to you the classic examples guys to go
into medicine and just can't cope with
surgery
you know guys who vomit and
so freaking guys you just don't have
what it takes to cut open a human being
and sewn them back up again
on a mental level or whatever you want
to say you know but they're all in every
line of work there are things like that
you thought you have what it takes you
know to get into the NBA or to be a
surgeon or whatever it was and then in
the process of doing it you find out you
find out that you don't you're capable
of anything there is nothing you can't
do
everything in your life has led you to
this point everything in your life
happened because you made it happen
there were no accidents no coincidences
no luck it all happened because you made
it happen it's kind of relates to what
you were talking about recently about
destiny
yeah like believing that one career or
one just anything in your life is your
destiny in this in this same way that's
dangerous and unhealthy really like like
if you make it to this point in a
medical career and you realize you
cannot perform surgery like you
shouldn't feel like oh like this was
right this was what I was supposed to be
doing and then that would prevent you
from you know accepting that mm-hm you
just can't be a medical doctor yeah and
you know obviously people acquire that
same way of thinking about destiny to
their sex lives yeah the people they
fall in love with people they think they
they think they ought to fall in love
with the person they thought they would
be with forever and so on yeah that's
deeply challenging I mean that's
compared to the stuff we're just talking
about in terms of religion that's
probably way more people challenged the
belief in personal destiny as it
attaches to your love life in your sex
life that's tough alright that's a wrap
you're a genius you're a king you're a
god you are the most epic thing in the
entire universe you are anything you
want to be so that thing you want to be
that thing you want to have think about
it s1 it's right here all you have to do
is reach out and take it
[Music]
evolution